## IMEXEC Meeting Notes 
2019-08-21

### Attending: 

- Stevan Earl (co-chair; rappoteur)
- Suzanne Remillard (co-chair)
- Tim Whiteaker
- Renèe Brown
- Dan Bahauddin (EB representative)
- Kristin Vanderbilt (EDI representative)
- Corinna Gries

### EB report

The Executive Board has not met since the last IM Exec meeting so there is not a report at this time.

### LNO update

Marty recently attened the ILTER meeting, highlights include:
-  approximately 20 US members attened
-  it was a smaller meeting than the one held in South Africa but a good size for interactions, and there was a good mix of science and organizational presentations
- there were excellent presentation regarding what is happening in terms of long-term infrastructure
- the European LTER has received a large grant to develop a linked geo-eco-social infrastructure
- South Africa has an impressive marine network
- Marty presented an update on our LTER bibliography

Marty and the LNO are focused on providing the decadal review document to NSF by October 1, 2019. NSF will determine the next steps in that process.

### working group updates

non-tabular: this group met on September 3 at which they developed a list of non-tabular data; discussed how to tackle the problem, and assigned group members to consider a particular type or types of non-tabular data - those members will reserach current approaches to dealing with thier assigned data types and identify experts. This group has started a Google Drive to use as a working space.

wired: Corinna harvested IM website materials and put those materials into GitHub repositories. 

### IMC annual meeting report

Suzanne has compiled most of the 2019 annual meeting report. A report from breakout group number four is outstanding, and she will reach out to John Porter (that group's reporter) to get those notes and finalize the report.

### code registry for non-IM code at LTER sites

Stevan wanted to confirm that the non-tabular working group will consider how best to archive simulation models. Tim confirmed that the working group will address this.

### 2020 annual IMC meeting

Decisions were not made at this time, but there is a general tendency toward hosting the 2020 IMC meeting in conjunction with ESA; meeting support will come from the LNO and EDI but sites will be responsible for lodging.

Renèe will look into meeting logistics for esa 2020; Marty will provide Renèe with an appropriate contact.

### water cooler

Margaret will discuss EML 2.2 during the October 2019 water cooler.

Renèe will consider an IMKE topic for the November or December water cooler.

Marty noted that the ILTER needs updates for LTER sites, and suggested that she or Kristin would appreciate a small amount of water cooler time to provide the IMC with instructions about how to update LTER profiles in the ILTER database.

### LTER IM website

Corinna harvested most of the material housed at im.lternet.edu and moved those materials to a suite of GitHub repositories. Corinna joined the call to discuss what she has done, the organizational structure, and to contribute to the conversation about the fate of these materials. Generally the approach will be to stop using/updating im.lternet.edu and instead update the materials on GitHub; GitHub will be the (at least) temporary home for these material until the LNO identifies and implements their document storage solution (tentatively Higher Logic) at which time we will evaluate the suitability of the platform as a document sharing and collaboration platform.

Marty will combine the IMExec and IM Google Team drives into a single drive, and give all IMs read access and a subset of users write access as needed.

Sven has mirrored im.lternet.edu but a cursory inspection indicates that it is not complete, mostly lacking highly nested materials. Thus a charge to the group is to go through the GitHub repositories that Corinna created to be sure that all materials were indeed harvested.
