# IM Exec Meeting Notes 
## 2020-03-18
## Attending: 
- Suzanne Remillard (co-chair)
- Stevan Earl (co-chair; rapporteur)
- Jason Downing
- Tim Whiteaker
- Renèe Brown
- Dan Bahauddin (EB representative)
- Marty Downs (LNO representative)
- ~~Kristin Vanderbilt (EDI representative)~~
## Executive Board report (Dan)
Discussed options for Science Council, which is now cancelled, at least for a spring in-person meeting due to the Coronavirus pandemic. See updates from LNO.

The Education committee gave a presentation. Last week monthly meeting -- Cailin Orr from Science Education Resource Center (SERC) - overview of resources that are available. The committee is considering whether that is a useful partnership to share products in a well-known and well-organized format. SERC has traditionally focused on undergraduate materials, but also is looking at younger students.  Schoolyard book series and data literacy working groups continue to meet. 

Dan gave an update on IM activities, including virtual water coolers.

EDI gave an update, including such topics as deprecating the LTER data portal. Their best practices have been of interest to other groups working with genomics. Looking to have a big presence at ESA.  Supporting synthesis working group for soil data.
## LNO update (Marty)

**science council**

Considering what to do about the Science Council spring meeting (hosted by CAP, May 4-7). It is confirmed that the Science Council meeting will not happen in person, at least not in May. This meeting or some aspects of it will occur in digital form but they are working on what that will look like. Still aiming to have an in person meeting, possibly in the fall, likely not at CAP (due to a mid-term site review), but everything is open. SEV is being considered as an alternate site for a fall science council meeting.

**community platform**

There are unforeseen contractual problems with Salesforce so they are revisiting Zoho. Requirements include: (1) many-to-many relationships; Zoho has some limitations around that but should be able to work around them; (2) IM updating of site personnel - this is difficult no matter the system, a possible solution is to provide a user with a link that they will use to join the network for which there would then be an approval process. Need adequate solutions to those requirements. There will be a set-up and onboarding process.

Right now we have an LDAP, which is separate from emails lists and the display on the website. Any time we make personnel changes, all three systems require an update. Also, there is not currently an easy way to monitor the work and activities of various committees and working groups. This platform will help address these needs. IMs do these things all the time but it is a small part of the time of other groups and such a system will be immensely helpful. A good example of the use of the platform is that folks who are interested in a topic like, for example, Natura, could self-assign to receive notifications about that activity and thus eliminate the need to broadly distribute activity notices to broad listservs.

**other**

- Spinning up a new diversity committee.
- NEON MOU. The LNO through UCSB is the only legal representative that could sign a MOU so they are exploring that.
## Environmental Data Initiative update (Kristin)

Kristin was unable to participate in the meeting but provided a link to a document detailing EDI activities planned for ESA.
## Working Group Updates (Tim)

**Next Generation ClimDB** USFS leadership have received a proposal regarding input on the plan for ClimDB, but the LTER proposal seems to be stalled. Renèe suggested that the group should meet again to wrap a few details, make decisions, and move forward; EDI needs to initiate this. Tim concurred that this basically could be wrapped up with an additional meeting, which has yet to be scheduled.

**Core Metabase** This group has been active but there is nothing to report.

**Non-tabular** This group has had several meetings, most notably discussing drone data. They have met with drone exports to discuss drone metadata, which will help to identify how to describe the data with EML. Another meeting was about the best practices GitHub repository. Margaret gave a tour of the repository. The next steps are for An and Tim to convert the current best practices to Markdown. Hap will do this for genomics data. Corinna will address best practices for still images (not geospatial images).
## VWC (Jason)

The non tabular group would like to have their resources in better condition before they address a water cooler so they would like to wait.

Marty indicated that she has received several requests about site websites so that could be a timely topic. Suggest contacting Mary Martin, who recently moved from Drupal to WordPress; Suzanne said that a couple of people have requested information about AND website design; Tim would talk about lessons learned for static sites; Corinna would be good to speak about Drupal; Sarah at NTL has a squarespace site that has generated a lot of interest. We will pursue this as a topic for the April 13th water cooler.

## Google Drive

We currently have separate IMC (all IMs have access) and IMExec (only IMExec has access) Google Drives. We have decided that these should be merged. Suzanne has started a document to outline how these drives should be merged. IMExec members have admin privileges on the IMC drive.

Action item is for the group to consider the structure of the combined drive.

## Annual Committee Report

The annual report is due April 20. Suzanne has already started a document for the current year report, and Stevan and Suzanne will do the initial development and editing with the goal of providing a draft to the rest of IM Exec on April 1 for their review (though other IM Exec members are certainly not excluded from contributing to the report prior to April 1).

New for this year is a section asking if and what feedback the Committee would like from the Science Council. Jason will mention this in his notification to the IMC about the water cooler so that we can discuss ideas briefly during the water cooler with the option of additional follow-up.

## IM Exec member terms

All members of IM Exec save Jason have terms ending in 2021. This will result in a massive turnover, potentially impinging continuity of IM Exec and the IMC. Most obvious solutions to address this are to ask current IM Exec members to shorten or lengthen their terms by one year. This starts with IM Exec, and each member will consider their thoughts regarding their own term. We will then make a proposal to the IMC about the problem and the proposed solution(s). IM Exec will discuss this again during the April 2020 meeting.
## Annual IMC Meeting 2020

This item was discussed only briefly. We are still generally considering a more hands-on, workshop-style approach to activities. Several ideas have been floated, including:

- training to develop CUASHI data and metadata
- GitHub training
- data set annotation training (would need to coordinate with EDI)
- reproducible research training, possibly hosted by Julien Brun
