
# IMEXEC Meeting Notes 


## 2020-02-12


# **Attending**: 



*   Suzanne Remillard (co-chair; notes)
*   Stevan Earl (co-chair)
*   Jason Downing
*   Tim Whiteaker
*   Renèe Brown
*   Dan Bahauddin (EB representative)
*   Marty Downs (LNO representative)
*   Kristin Vanderbilt (EDI representative)


# Executive Board report (Dan)

No EB meeting since our last meeting. May be Feb 19.

Was asking about ClimDB next generation RFC for EB.

Nothing has happened and WG has not met.

Suzanne will follow-up.


# LNO update (Marty)

Working on common surveys across synthesis WG.

BioScience on the last 40 year of bibliography data coming out soon.

Science symposium at ESA, but still working on details about whether there will be separate LTER and data helpdesk booths.

They are planning an LTER 40th anniversary event.

List of talks to be presented at Ocean Sciences next week up on the website.


# Environmental Data Initiative update (Kristin)

Met with P McCartney on Jan 23 with Update. He gave feedback on challenges.

Large databases need more storage space.

Big data WG and offline data; soil synthesis WG and common data model.

New customers to EDI; there is a steady stream, but not paying customers. How to increase this? There are generalist repositories, like Dryad, that seem to be taking business away from EDI. Peter would like to see a study on data usability on EDI versus Dryad.

Soils WG in April.

Annotation training at NCEAS in May, June or July. Will include some specialists.

Data Helpdesk for ESA - multiple organizations pulling funds for different organizations to have booths together. EDI, Artic, etc. Kristin had been organizing this in the past, but Margaret will be doing it this year.

ESA career center session at ESA.

ESA is more amenable to working with EDI this year.

Will have multiple posters and insight sessions.

There has been an increase in data usability.

Will assembly line training happen this year? Yes, for fellows. Perhaps a few others can be funded.

Concerns about Peter possibly retiring soon and the future of EDI. No definite plans.

Discussed the funding model for doing archiving data.


# Working Group Updates (Tim)


## Non-tabular

Drones (2020-01-28): Opportunity to hire an undergrad to develop BP, via Notre Dame LANDRS project.

Software (2020-02-11): Draft BP under review by non-tabbers.


# VWC (Jason)

Kim Komatsu in March (9th)


## Others: 

Site systems

Hackathon

Tracking site projects

Annual meeting preparation


## Documentation

1. Do we need to take and archive written notes given that these will all now be recorded?

If we are going to delete the videos, we should keep notes, but they should be more summary than detailed.

2. Should we consider keeping some (or maybe even all), especially those related to IMKE, VWC recordings for a longer or even indefinite period?

Seems like there are some very pertinent subjects that would be good to keep around, but others not.

What is the process for deciding which recordings to keep?

We are now recording all of the VWC meetings?

We could move them to YouTube and password protected.

The more old stuff we keep around the harder it is to keep organized.

Could we be casual/selective about which we keep around?

We will keep the default of 6 months.

IMExec will decide monthly which should be kept longer.


# Annual IMC Meeting 2020

EDI will cover IM travel to the ESA meeting. IMC also has committee funds. We can hold onto these 2020 funds for two years. Does EDI plan to fund the registration costs? We need to get the details from EDI. We need to generate an estimated budget. Stevan will start this.

We could use our committee funds to fund other meetings (participation support).


# Other things:

Website. Do we need an IMC website?

WIRED decided to use GitHub as a repository and not have a website.

We should use the committee part of our webpage as our ‘web presence’.

Should we talk about this in relation to a VWC on site and network web presence.

We could form another committee on this. WIRED WG has fizzled out.

Do we need public facing information? Who is the audience? New IMs, people looking for good data management IM, NSF.

Could we get something done at the annual meeting?


