### IMEXEC Meeting Notes 

### 2019-10-16

### Attending: 
* Stevan Earl (co-chair)
* Suzanne Remillard (co-chair, rapporteur)
* Jason Downing
* Tim Whiteaker
* Renee Brown
* Dan Bahauddin (EB representative)
* Kristin Vanderbilt (EDI representative
* Marty Downs (LNO representative)

### Executive Board report (Dan)

Meeting on 9/25. Committee updates. IMC activities review, new and ongoing wg activities, planned changes for databits. Edu update; new processes with new interns at LNO, new book series proposal. ILTER has new bylaws, energized and fully running. Presentation from Sarah Garlic from HBR; project that looks at how scientists work with outreach projects (engaging with stakeholders directly). Hope to scale up to whole network. These are data users. Sarah is putting in a proposal. EB is concerned/working with diversity within the network. Decadal review committee has submitted their documents. Brief discussion on increasing engagement with NEON and how to best access their data. The EB is looking at other networks.

### Environmental Data Initiative update (Kristin)

Applications now being accepted from sites who want to host an EDI fellow in summer 2020
EDI will have a booth at AGU and is also helping ESIP organize the AGU Data Fair
Privacy policy has been posted on EDI website
3rd party identity capability for authentication in PASTA (ORCID and Google)
New advisory committee members: Erin Robinson, Stacy McNulty

### LNO update (Marty)

40 year review committee: Self study has been submitted. Received charge to committee after the self-study was submitted. More forward looking focus then anticipated. Interested in relationship to other networks than expected. No new timeline. Committee will start meeting this fall. Completing the review will be through next Spring.

Higher Logic contract did not pass USC legal. Higher Logic was not willing to negotiate. They are back to Hivebrite, which is probably OK.

Marty has been involved with the proposal that Sarah Garlic is putting together for ??

Going to Carlton to talk to CERF to give a presentation. Geoscience education seems to be the focus. Marty asked about the IM-Edu workshop at ASM and what came out of that. Suzanne's recollection is that the educators needs were too specific for IMs to accommodate.

Synthesis WG proposals has come out. They will fund 2-4 WG with this call.

### Working Group Updates (Tim)

LTER Core Metabase released v1.0. However some bugs were found.

ClimDB met last week and will meet in November. Will ask IMEXEC for input on how to handle the updates to current ClimDB before archiving.

Non-Tabular meets every 2 weeks. Genomics, model data and still images. Next up is drone data. Discussed procedural elements, but no BP yet.

### VWC (Jason)

Margaret is confirmed for next week on EML2.2
November may need to get proposed due to Veterans day. Is it too early for Climdb?


IMKE  

What are the [topics](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-b15meqdqkcCuYNJFVYYSmkHfrqS5I-ZjpEgyZljwRc/edit?usp=sharing)?

Renee will try to gather all of the potential IMKE topics.
See: [Q&A_Tea with Chair sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fXAAhA4omJkBTwe7sw9A4dO8Dxy1rw4k7TUkY0Z9XWA/edit#gid=411945072)

Software repository - software is broken

SOM WG presentation; thinking about opening it up to others to use the database. Stevan will talk to Will (SOM WG) about the presentation he gave and whether he'd do that for a VWC (maybe November).

### Annual IMC Meeting 2020

We haven't formally decided whether to hold a meeting at ESIP or ESA. Different members thought we had already made this decision and others didn't agree. The budget for either is about the same. At the VWC, nobody seemed to express any concerns. Do we need a vote from the whole IMC?  However, the VWC is not the best way to collect people's true feelings. Several people feel strongly that we should vote across the group. We should send out a list of pros and cons for attending each meeting. Can we throw up a google doc of pros and cons? Dan will start this.

We need to let ESA know by the end of the month. There are meeting room costs with ESA, but not ESIP. We should have a vote by the end of next week.

### Other things:

ILTER updates from email Marty sent out to site_exec and IMs. They want 90% compliance or they will drop the sites. They are asking for things that LNO doesn't know about. Each site needs to go in and review.

**LNO databases**

Personnel display is functioning on website. Waiting for new community platform. There will be two ways to update this more frequently than annually. Marty will release instructions on how to update.

Biblio is up to date this month through web of science alerts. Other non DOI articles need to be uploaded manually. Send the bibtex of new citations to Marty. Last updated in Spring 2019.
