## IMEXEC Meeting Notes 
2019-08-21

### Attending: 

- Stevan Earl (co-chair)
- Suzanne Remillard (co-chair; rappoteur)
- Jason Downing
- Tim Whiteaker
- Renèe Brown
- Dan Bahauddin (EB representative)
- Kristin Vanderbilt (EDI representative)

### EB report (Dan)

Wasn’t at last EB meeting. Deadline for ESA 2020 on 9/28; brainstorming on 40 year review themes. Book on LTER will be published by then; BioScience special issue.

Quarterly PI webinar series from D.McKnight; similar to new IM idea exchange. Phil Robertson will chair this committee.

Edu/Outreach committee sent letter to EB regarding loss of Edu position (Sam); good for coordinating network wide committees. There is some history of position, but others didn’t know it existed. Talked about filling need going forward.

Broader LTER community community with related organizations and terminated LTER sites; how to include these communities. ASM is open to these communities; EDI is also open; but is there a way to facilitate greater cooperation. There are referred to as “affiliated sites”. 

### EDI report (Kristin)
EDI was active at ESIP. Also active at ESA as an IM helpdesk. Worked in combination with DataOne, ESIP, GBio, Arctic Data Center all talking about data. Purpose was to spread the data/IM word. Next years ESA’s theme is “harnessing the data ..”.

EDI will have a presence at AGU this year.

Data fellows were successful this year.

Colin has been working with hack-a-thon group and a new R package (Data Pie) will be available soon.

### LNO update (Marty)

LNO update: With new funding, NCO is now called LNO, although they are now housed at Santa Barbara. NSF wasn’t as interested in the communications aspect. 
There’s been a committee working on a general LTER network document for the 40 year review. This document is almost ready for distribution. Currently out to PIs for review. It includes concepts/sections on long-term research; based on input from sites. Also includes IM brief.

ILTER meeting coming up soon. 

### working group updates (Tim)

See Trello board for all updates. 

Metabase: ESIP working session; interest in provenance and citation. Been thinking about XLTs to upload from EML to metabase.

Non-tabular: First meeting this week. Discussed type of data that sites have and categories. Starting to create a matrix to figure out where to go next.

Semantic Annotation: There was a primer that needs some editing. EML 2.2 release is immenent (really).

IM Knowledge Exchange (IMKE): Renee is new chair of this.

DEIMS: Met at ESIP.


### virtual water cooler (VWC)

Proposed list:
-Oct 14 - DEIMS Project Update (specifically about Corinna’s migration to Drupal 8)
-Nov 11 - NexGen CLIMDB Project
-Dec 9 - Information Management Knowledge Exchange #2

### Survey about Databits

Marty has looked at the survey. Her thinking was that the platform would be LTER Network website.

The PDF on the website has 0 page views. This emphasizes the need for a different platform.

The most recent DB didn’t even get distributed to IM email list. There were some lapses in agreeing how it would be distributed and by whom.

### Network Platforms that they are considering:

**Brochure about why data should be archived:** John Porter put together a document and the question is where it would be hosted. EDI would like to host this information. Are there things that new LTER IMs need to know? (This is all from an email from Corinna earlier this month.)

**MC Website:** Corinna has started to move stuff off of IMC website to Github. Sven was in the process of mirroring the website. We need to follow up with Corinna and Sven. Suzanne and Jason will follow up. This needs to be coordinated.

**ESA meeting next year; theme is about data.** It may be good to consider having our IMC meeting in association with ESA. Corinna suggested an LTER data session. There will likely be a session on the 40 year review. Sessions are due soon (9/19). This may be too soon to act. We will get costs from sending IMs to ESIP from both UW and NCO.

**Documenting Models:** At MCR’s review, a comment was on submitting models to a repository. CAP has a method of doing this, but how are other sites doing this? Can we include this in our VWC discussions? It was also discussed at the non-tabular meeting and may be a part of this discussion. Model repositories: HydoShare, Comses


### Action Items
Suzanne and Jason will follow up with Corinna about moving the IMC website materials to Github.

Discuss going to ESA next summer for annual IMC meeting at upcoming VWC


### Action Items from 2019-07-17 meeting:

Survey about Databits (Google doc) - for VWC on 9/8; discuss at next IMEXEC meeting 8/21
	-Use, contributions, value, comments
The reality of communication these days is very different from when DB started.
**Review draft survey Qs**

Get meeting costs for ESIP and previous site meetings
Request costs from a few sites (KNZ, SEV, CDR); come up the list of cost needs for the request

August VWC - 8/12 move to 8/19 
Information Management Knowledge Exchange (IMKE) - Jason has some suggested topics on VWC board in Trello. Renee will uncover the ‘Tea with the Chair’ spreadsheet.

Sept VWC (9/9): Some Databits discussion based on survey and final vote; Also next meeting discussion (ESA or ESIP)? Survey will go out on Monday, Sept 26.
Oct (10/14): Corinna is migrating to Drupal 8; Jason will see if she wants to present

Recording VWC; the IMKE sessions would be most appropriate.
What type of availability do we want? Open links? Email request only?
People are generally uncomfortable with open links to all. We can put them on the IMShare drive.

IMC Meeting:
Collect notes from breakouts (Renee)
Received lots of positive comments from people that enjoyed the conversation
One negative comment
What do we want to discuss about this meeting?
What are the outcomes or action items from this meeting?
[Tim has summarized the bullet points.]
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Cgeyry_u42udHKx9BwjyDZ2h5_rlFwSsU1k6grO1yKQ/edit)

There is still a question about why we need to get together face to face. There’s a sense that we need to be productive and maybe smaller working groups would be more productive.

We need to produce a report (also from 2018 meeting).
